README.md, before:


![logo ig :)](./logo.webp)

A tool for creating interactive, text novels.

## Features

- Play interactive novels with different dialog choices
    - Storyline branching
    - Text animations and effects
    - Background music and sound effects
- Novel creation tool with live preview



## What is a novel?

A novel is a story that can be played. It's essentially a text file containg a syntax that can be interpreted by the application. This file uses the extension `.novel`.

```novel
TITLE "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland"
AUTHOR "Lewis Carroll"
ENTRY #dialog_block
PRELOAD "./background-music.wav" $bg_music
LOCK

#dialog_block
    [play $bg_music]

    @"Alice"
        But I don’t want to go among mad people.
    @

    @"Cat"
        Oh, you can’t help that,
        we’re all mad here. I’m mad.
        You’re mad.
    @

    @"Alice"
        How do you know I’m mad?
    @

    @"Cat"
        You must be,
        or you wouldn’t have come here.
    @
#
```

# Novel file syntax

### Headers

Headers are defined in the root of the file and are used to setup a novel. The syntax of a header is as following:
```novel
<HEADER> <arg1> <arg2> ...
```

Check all the [available headers](#available-headers).

### Variables
You can define and use variables when writing a novel. To define them, check the [DEFINE header](#define).
Variables can hold values and be used as arguments when using [commands](#commands) or to replace sections on texts. Refer to the [dialog section](#dialogs) to understant how variables can be used on texts.

### Blocks

A block is a sequence of dialogs that can be defined in the root level of the file, meaning you can't define a block inside another block. You can give a block any name, as long as it's unique and doesn't contain spaces. To define a block, use the following syntax:
```novel
#my_new_block
    
#

#my_other_block
    
#
```
To reference this block anywhere in the file, just use `#my_new_block`.

### Dialogs

A dialog is a sequence of texts that can only be defined inside blocks. It contains texts, which are separated by lines. Texts will appear one by one on screen until the whole dialog is displayed. You can add how many text lines you'd like, but dialogs must have at least one text. Dialogs can also be assigned a name that will show on screen if assigned. To define a dialog use the following syntax:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"My dialog"
        This text will show first.
        This text will show last.
    @

#
```
If you don't want to assign a name to it, you can just do as following:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @
        Sample text.
        Another text.
    @

#
```
If there is multiple dialogs inside a block, they will show one after the other on the screens, meaning you'll never see two dialogs simultaneously.
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"Person 1"
        Hey!
        How are you?
    @

    @"Person 2"
        Oh, hi!
        I'm fine. Thanks!
    @

#
```
You can use a variable inside a text by wrapping it around curly brackets: `{$my_var}`. It will be replaced with it's value in runtime. For example:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"Stranger"
        Hello, {$name}...
    @
    
    @"You"
        How do you know my name?
    @

#
```

### Commands

Commands can be placed inside blocks or dialogs. They need to be the only thing on the line in order to work. The syntax of a command is as following:
```novel
[<command> <arg1> <arg2> ...]
```
Check all the [available commands](#available-commands).

### Choice

Choices are a set of one or more options that are clickable. Each option have a text and can be attached multiple commands that will run if the option is clicked. Choices can only be placed inside dialogs. To create a choice, use the following syntax:
```novel
?
    {TEXT GOES HERE} [<command> ...]
?
```
To use more than one command, simply place them one after another.
```novel
?
    {Do things} [goto #other_block] [play $clapping] [play $cheering]
?
```
Choices are great for creating branches on the novel by sending the reader to different block deppending on what option they choose. For example:
```novel
#question
    @"Friend"
        Hey, regarding tonight...
        What do you want for dinner?
        ?
            {Hamburgers} [goto #scenario1]
            {Pizza} [goto #scenario2]
            {Anything is fine} [goto #scenario3]
        ?
    @
#

#scenario1
    @
        You eat hamburger.
    @
#

#scenario2
    @
        You eat pizza.
    @
#

#scenario3
    @
        You two couldn't decide so you don't eat anything.
    @
#
```

### Comments

Comments are used to keep notes when writting a novel file. Commented lines will be ignored on parsing. To create a comment, place `//` before whatever you want to comment. For example:
```novel
// This comment will not affect parsing
#block
    @
        // My other comment
        Text
    @
#
```
<br/>

# Documentation

Here is described every header and command, as well as examples on how to use them.

## Available headers

#### TITLE
```novel
TITLE "My Novel"
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description       |
| :-------- | :-------- | :---------------  |
| `TITLE`   | `string`  | Sets the title    |
<br/>

#### AUTHOR
```novel
AUTHOR "My name"
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description       |
| :-------- | :-------- | :---------------- |
| `AUTHOR`  | `string`  | Sets the author   |
<br/>

#### ENTRY
```novel
ENTRY #my_block
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description                                                               |
| :-------- | :-------- | :-------------------------                                                |
| `ENTRY`   | `block`   | Defines the entry point of the novel, meaning the first block to show up  |
<br/>

#### DEFINE
```novel
DEFINE $my_var value
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description                                                               |
| :-------- | :-------- | :-------------------------                                                |
| `DEFINE`   | `variable`, `value`   | Defines a new variable. It's value can be a number or a string  |
<br/>

#### PRELOAD
```novel
PRELOAD "./image.jpeg" $my_variable
```
| Header    | Arguments          | Description                                          |
| :-------- | :----------------  | :-------------------------                           |
| `PRELOAD` | `string`, `variable` | Preloads a resource and saves it on a new variable   |
<br/>

#### LOCK
```novel
LOCK
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description                        |
| :-------- | :-------  | :-------------------------         |
| `LOCK`    |           | Locks a novel making it readonly   |
<br/>

## Available commands

#### `[goto <target>]`
Goes immediatly to a block.
| Argument  | Type       | Required  | Description      |
| :-------- | :--------  | :-------- | :--------------- |
| `target`  | `block`    | &#x2611;  | Block to go to   |

Example:
```novel
#block1
    @
        This text is inside a block
    @
    [goto #block2]
#

#block2
    @
        This text is inside another block
    @
#
```
<br/>

#### `[play <audio> <transition>]`
Plays the audio from a variable. The variable **must** have an audio assigned first using the [PRELOAD](#preload) header.
| Argument      | Type       | Required  | Description                                  |
| :--------     | :--------  | :-------- | :---------------                             |
| `audio`       | `variable` | &#x2611;  | Variable containing the audio to be played   |
| `transition`  | `number`   | &#x2612;  | Transition in seconds. Default is 0          |

Example:
```novel
PRELOAD "./roaaaarrr.wav" $my_audio

#jumpscare
    @
        When suddenly...
        [play $my_audio 0.5]
        A monster appears!
    @
#
```
<br/>

#### `[stop <audio> <transition>]`
Stops an audio.
| Argument      | Type       | Required  | Description                                  |
| :--------     | :--------  | :-------- | :---------------                             |
| `audio`       | `variable` | &#x2611;  | Variable containing the audio to be stoped   |
| `transition`  | `number`   | &#x2612;  | Transition in seconds. Default is 0          |

Example:
```novel
PRELOAD "./calm-song.wav" $my_song

#my_block
    @
        You're walking back home
        You place your hand in your pocket and...
        [stop $my_song 3]
        YOU DON'T FEEL YOUR PHONE!
    @
#
```

Commit message:

variables support for dialog speaker

README.md, after:


![logo ig :)](./logo.webp)

A tool for creating interactive, text novels.

## Features

- Play interactive novels with different dialog choices
    - Storyline branching
    - Text animations and effects
    - Background music and sound effects
- Novel creation tool with live preview



## What is a novel?

A novel is a story that can be played. It's essentially a text file containg a syntax that can be interpreted by the application. This file uses the extension `.novel`.

```novel
TITLE "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland"
AUTHOR "Lewis Carroll"
ENTRY #dialog_block
PRELOAD "./background-music.wav" $bg_music
LOCK

#dialog_block
    [play $bg_music]

    @"Alice"
        But I don’t want to go among mad people.
    @

    @"Cat"
        Oh, you can’t help that,
        we’re all mad here. I’m mad.
        You’re mad.
    @

    @"Alice"
        How do you know I’m mad?
    @

    @"Cat"
        You must be,
        or you wouldn’t have come here.
    @
#
```

# Novel file syntax

### Headers

Headers are defined in the root of the file and are used to setup a novel. The syntax of a header is as following:
```novel
<HEADER> <arg1> <arg2> ...
```

Check all the [available headers](#available-headers).

### Variables
You can define and use variables when writing a novel. To define them, check the [DEFINE header](#define).
Variables can hold values and be used as arguments when using [commands](#commands) or to replace sections on texts. Refer to the [dialog section](#dialogs) to understant how variables can be used on texts.

### Blocks

A block is a sequence of dialogs that can be defined in the root level of the file, meaning you can't define a block inside another block. You can give a block any name, as long as it's unique and doesn't contain spaces. To define a block, use the following syntax:
```novel
#my_new_block
    
#

#my_other_block
    
#
```
To reference this block anywhere in the file, just use `#my_new_block`.

### Dialogs

A dialog is a sequence of texts that can only be defined inside blocks. It contains texts, which are separated by lines. Texts will appear one by one on screen until the whole dialog is displayed. You can add how many text lines you'd like, but dialogs must have at least one text. Dialogs can also be assigned a speaker that will show on screen if assigned. To define a dialog use the following syntax:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"My dialog"
        This text will show first.
        This text will show last.
    @

#
```
If you don't want to assign a speaker to it, you can just do as following:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @
        Sample text.
        Another text.
    @

#
```
If there is multiple dialogs inside a block, they will show one after the other on the screens, meaning you'll never see two dialogs simultaneously.
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"Person 1"
        Hey!
        How are you?
    @

    @"Person 2"
        Oh, hi!
        I'm fine. Thanks!
    @

#
```
You can use a variable inside a text by wrapping it around curly brackets: `{$my_var}`. It will be replaced with it's value in runtime. For example:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"Stranger"
        Hello, {$name}...
    @
    
    @"You"
        How do you know my name?
    @

#
```
Just like in texts, it's also possible to use variables inside the speaker text. For example:
```novel
#my_block
    
    @"{$name}"
        Yes, {$name} is my name.
    @

#
```

### Commands

Commands can be placed inside blocks or dialogs. They need to be the only thing on the line in order to work. The syntax of a command is as following:
```novel
[<command> <arg1> <arg2> ...]
```
Check all the [available commands](#available-commands).

### Choice

Choices are a set of one or more options that are clickable. Each option have a text and can be attached multiple commands that will run if the option is clicked. Choices can only be placed inside dialogs. To create a choice, use the following syntax:
```novel
@"Speaker"
    ?
        {TEXT GOES HERE} [<command> ...]
    ?
@
```
To use more than one command, simply place them one after another.
```novel
?
    {Do things} [goto #other_block] [play $clapping] [play $cheering]
?
```
Choices are great for creating branches on the novel by sending the reader to different block deppending on what option they choose. For example:
```novel
#question
    @"Friend"
        Hey, regarding tonight...
        What do you want for dinner?
        ?
            {Hamburgers} [goto #scenario1]
            {Pizza} [goto #scenario2]
            {Anything is fine} [goto #scenario3]
        ?
    @
#

#scenario1
    @
        You eat hamburger.
    @
#

#scenario2
    @
        You eat pizza.
    @
#

#scenario3
    @
        You two couldn't decide so you don't eat anything.
    @
#
```
Like dialog texts and speakers, you can use variables inside a choice text:
```novel
?
    {Give a chocolate to {$friend1_name}} [goto #friend1happy]
    {Give a chocolate to {$friend2_name}} [goto #friend2happy]
?
```

### Comments

Comments are used to keep notes when writting a novel file. Commented lines will be ignored on parsing. To create a comment, place `//` before whatever you want to comment. For example:
```novel
// This comment will not affect parsing
#block
    @
        // My other comment
        Text
    @
#
```
<br/>

# Documentation

Here is described every header and command, as well as examples on how to use them.

## Available headers

#### TITLE
```novel
TITLE "My Novel"
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description       |
| :-------- | :-------- | :---------------  |
| `TITLE`   | `string`  | Sets the title    |
<br/>

#### AUTHOR
```novel
AUTHOR "My name"
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description       |
| :-------- | :-------- | :---------------- |
| `AUTHOR`  | `string`  | Sets the author   |
<br/>

#### ENTRY
```novel
ENTRY #my_block
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description                                                               |
| :-------- | :-------- | :-------------------------                                                |
| `ENTRY`   | `block`   | Defines the entry point of the novel, meaning the first block to show up  |
<br/>

#### DEFINE
```novel
DEFINE $my_var value
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description                                                               |
| :-------- | :-------- | :-------------------------                                                |
| `DEFINE`   | `variable`, `value`   | Defines a new variable. It's value can be a number or a string  |
<br/>

#### PRELOAD
```novel
PRELOAD "./image.jpeg" $my_variable
```
| Header    | Arguments          | Description                                          |
| :-------- | :----------------  | :-------------------------                           |
| `PRELOAD` | `string`, `variable` | Preloads a resource and saves it on a new variable   |
<br/>

#### LOCK
```novel
LOCK
```
| Header    | Arguments | Description                        |
| :-------- | :-------  | :-------------------------         |
| `LOCK`    |           | Locks a novel making it readonly   |
<br/>

## Available commands

#### `[goto <target>]`
Goes immediatly to a block.
| Argument  | Type       | Required  | Description      |
| :-------- | :--------  | :-------- | :--------------- |
| `target`  | `block`    | &#x2611;  | Block to go to   |

Example:
```novel
#block1
    @
        This text is inside a block
    @
    [goto #block2]
#

#block2
    @
        This text is inside another block
    @
#
```
<br/>

#### `[play <audio> <transition>]`
Plays the audio from a variable. The variable **must** have an audio assigned first using the [PRELOAD](#preload) header.
| Argument      | Type       | Required  | Description                                  |
| :--------     | :--------  | :-------- | :---------------                             |
| `audio`       | `variable` | &#x2611;  | Variable containing the audio to be played   |
| `transition`  | `number`   | &#x2612;  | Transition in seconds. Default is 0          |

Example:
```novel
PRELOAD "./roaaaarrr.wav" $my_audio

#jumpscare
    @
        When suddenly...
        [play $my_audio 0.5]
        A monster appears!
    @
#
```
<br/>

#### `[stop <audio> <transition>]`
Stops an audio.
| Argument      | Type       | Required  | Description                                  |
| :--------     | :--------  | :-------- | :---------------                             |
| `audio`       | `variable` | &#x2611;  | Variable containing the audio to be stoped   |
| `transition`  | `number`   | &#x2612;  | Transition in seconds. Default is 0          |

Example:
```novel
PRELOAD "./calm-song.wav" $my_song

#my_block
    @
        You're walking back home
        You place your hand in your pocket and...
        [stop $my_song 3]
        YOU DON'T FEEL YOUR PHONE!
    @
#
```
